# Week 1 - Design Concepts

## User Experience (UX)

### What is UX?

It is about user experience for a product, system or service.

The aspects of peoples experience while using a product while using a product (not internal structure) such as:
  - Easy to learn
  - Easy to use
  - Meet user needs
  - Match with entire context

Understanding the users behavior for a product, system and service and deciding
  - Ways to complete a task
  - Features to include and exclude
  - Information to show

### User Interface (UI)

UI is an interface to provide interaction between computer systems, including hardware and software applications and users. Users expect a good......... (slide changed)

### User-Centered Design (UCD)

Systems should be designed around the types of experiences users want to have, rahter than designing user experience around a completed system. A product that is for the user and designed accordingly by providing functions to meet the users needs and making it easy to use for the end user. Extensive attention should be givin to end users needs, wants and limitations. We should also place the user at the centre of our design.

### Prototyping

Prototypes are early working models to show how an end product will look (usually without code) and this incorporates UI Design, functionality and interaction asects. They also allow us to test assumptions and ideas to avoid costly mistakes later.

#### Designing prototypes allow us to:
- Avoid expensive reworks
- Accelerate deveolpement and time to market
- Avoid Failures
- Improve product adoption and user engagement
- Demonstrate functionality
- Boost collaboration

#### Tasks before starting a prototype
- Carry out user research
- Gather project requirements
- Devise an information architecture

#### Types of prototypes

There are two types of prototypes - LoFi and HiFi. They can vary in level of detail, functionality, interactivity, visuals, content and commands.

Lofi
- Can be hand drawn or sketched
- No code
- Basic ideas such as layout, where images and buttons would go ect

HiFi
- Uses actual name, information, images ect

Step by step to designing a prototype
- Start with lofi prototype
- Interaction design (advance interactions, micro interactions, transitions)
- Advanced UI design (color, typography, refined spacing and positioning, real images, real text)
- Prototyping forms
- Data visualisation (list, cards, grids, filters, sorting data)

## Lab Session (Week1)

Food delivery application (Three features to include)
UX design process
User research methodoligies used in this context
Early design checks in this context
Differentiate between UX and UI concepts
Design lofi prototype using pen and paper

Define project objective and its scope
Scope - features (display menu, place order, feedback ect)
