# Notes - Week 2 Lab Tech Support
Today we will learn how to install Windows/Linux (Known as an Operating System (OS)) via removable media as well as installing into a VMWare enviroment. </br>

First we must answer, what is an OS. An operating system (OS) is the program that, after being initially loaded into the computer by a boot program, manages all of the other application programs in a computer. The application programs make use of the operating system by making requests for services through a defined application program interface (API). In addition, users can interact directly with the operating system through a user interface, such as a command-line interface (CLI) or a graphical UI (GUI). 

We can use the Windows OS downloader to download the ISO file (ISO is a virtual disk image) and or create a bootable media device. Alternatively we can use a program called RUFUS to create bootable media from any ISO file. You'd use Rufus to create a bootable device for linux or other OS that does not have it's own installer.

Once this device is done, we need to power down the device, plug our media in (or insert a physical disk if we burnt our image to disk) and boot to the BIOS of the hardware. This is usually via the F2, F10, F12 or DEL key while the machine is first powered on. While in the BIOS, you can select the boot device, or in older machines, you'll need to change the boot priority to the media you're trying to boot from.

<!-- Screen shots and further installation information to come, while installing OS -->

## VM Ware

VMware is a virtual environment where you can create a virtual machine and install most OS on in a controlled environment without altering your main Windows/OS installation.

<!-- Screen shots and further installation information to come, while installing VMware -->
