# Components of a Motherboard.
•	CPU </br>
•	RAM </br>
•	BIOS </br>
•	PCI – PCI/E </br>
•	AGP </br>
•	Southbridge/Northbridge </br>

## CPU: Central Processing Unit
This is the main component of the motherboard. This unit executes the main computing functions and interacts with the rest of the components on the motherboard. Any calculations required by either software or hardware are performed by the CPU. Generally, CPU’s with have some form of heatsink on top to keep the unit cold.
When installing the CPU, It’s important to make sure that the pins are aligned and that you’re not forcing the CPU clamp down. If it doesn’t go down easily, then try again, as incorrect installation can cause damage to the CPU.

## RAM: Random Access Memory
RAM is a temporary storage where instructions by software are stored and executed. There have been evolutions of the hardware over time, from DDR 1 through to 4 (DDR stands for Double Data RAM) and is easily recognizable via the voltage required for the RAM.

## BIOS: Basic Input Output System.
This is the basic operating system for the motherboard. It is where you can set values for your different hardware, tell the motherboard which drive to boot from (For example, booting from your windows drive to or CD/USB stick)
This is the first thing that boots when you power on your device. It runs a self-diagnostic test (Called POST – power on self test) to make sure that all the components are connected and are working. If anything fails, the on board speaker will beep with a code to tell you what is not working. Modern motherboards may have a light to indicate what has failed the post test.  
PCI: Peripheral Component Interface 
PCI is the connection on the motherboard where you can install external cards. These range from NICs, Soundcards, more USB connections, and various other peripherals.
There is also a PCI-E slot which has since replaced AGP (See below) as the general dedicated graphics slot. PCI E, as a transfer rate of 16x, which is faster than the 8x speed of AGP
 
## AGP: Accelerated Graphics Port
This is a feature of older motherboards before PCI-E took over in the late 2000’s. This port is usually a different colour on the motherboard to make it stand out as a separate port from PCI on the board. This port is for GPUs (Graphics processing unit) which is a dedicated card for handling graphics in 3d software, video and other tasks. These are used to handle graphics to allow the CPU to focus on other tasks needed by software instead of the CPU doing both, thus freeing up more bandwidth for the CPU, or if the board has a dedicated chip on board, doing the same for the chip.
 
## North Bridge/South Bridge:
The North and South Bridge connect the CPU to the other parts of the motherboard. As these chipsets do a lot of work, they will generally have a heatsink to cool them down.
The Northbridge connects the CPU with high speed channels such as RAM, PCIE/AGP, while the South connects with Ethernet, Sata Drives and PCI interfaces (excluding PCI-E and AGP)

## PSU: Powersupply
This unit transfers power from the wall and distributes it to the various hardware on the unit via cables/connectors. This is used to provide power any peripherals (HDD, SDD, CD drives, GPU, fans) as well as power to the motherboard and the CPU. There are various connectors on the motherboard to facilitate these connections. The connections to the motherboard are generally different and specialised as they wouldn’t fit anywhere else inside the chassis. For example, the power to the motherboard is a 20 
